A computer network is a group of computers that use a set of common communication protocols over digital interconnections
for the purpose of sharing resources located on or provided by the network nodes. The interconnections between nodes are
formed from a broad spectrum of telecommunication network technologies, based on physically wired, optical, and wireless
radio-frequency methods that may be arranged in a variety of network topologies.

The nodes of a computer network may be classified by many means as personal computers, servers, networking hardware,
or general purpose hosts. They are identified by hostnames and network addresses. Hostnames serve as memorable labels
for the nodes, rarely changed after initial assignment. Network addresses serve for locating and identifying the nodes
by communication protocols such as the Internet Protocol.

Computer networks may be classified by many criteria, for example, the transmission medium used to carry signals,
bandwidth, communications protocols to organize network traffic, the network size, the topology, traffic control
mechanism, and organizational intent.

Computer networks support many applications and services, such as access to the World Wide Web, digital video,
digital audio, shared use of application and storage servers, printers, and fax machines, and use of email and
instant messaging applications.

History

Computer networking may be considered a branch of computer science, computer engineering, and telecommunications,
since it relies on the theoretical and practical application of the related disciplines. Computer networking was
influenced by a wide array of technology developments and historical milestones.

    In the late 1950s, early networks of computers included the U.S. military radar system Semi-Automatic
    Ground Environment (SAGE).
    In 1959, Christopher Strachey filed a patent application for time-sharing and John McCarthy initiated the first
    project to implement time-sharing of user programs at MIT.[1][2][3][4] Stratchey passed the concept on to J. C. R.
    Licklider at the inaugural UNESCO Information Processing Conference in Paris that year.[5] McCarthy was instrumental
    in the creation of three of the earliest time-sharing systems (Compatible Time-Sharing System in 1961, BBN
    Time-Sharing System in 1962, and Dartmouth Time Sharing System in 1963).
    In 1959, Anatolii Ivanovich Kitov proposed to the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union
    a detailed plan for the re-organisation of the control of the Soviet armed forces and of the Soviet economy on the
    basis of a network of computing centres, the OGAS.[6]
    In 1959, the MOS transistor was invented by Mohamed Atalla and Dawon Kahng at Bell Labs.[7] It later became one of
    the basic building blocks and "work horses" of virtually any element of communications infrastructure.[8]
    In 1960, the commercial airline reservation system semi-automatic business research environment (SABRE) went online
    with two connected mainframes.
    In 1963, J. C. R. Licklider sent a memorandum to office colleagues discussing the concept of the "Intergalactic
    Computer Network", a computer network intended to allow general communications among computer users.
    Throughout the 1960s, Paul Baran and Donald Davies independently developed the concept of packet switching to
    transfer information between computers over a network. Davies pioneered the implementation of the concept with the
    NPL network, a local area network at the National Physical Laboratory (United Kingdom) using a line speed of 768
    kbit/s.[9][10][11]
    In 1965, Western Electric introduced the first widely used telephone switch that implemented computer control in
    the switching fabric.
    In 1969, the first four nodes of the ARPANET were connected using 50 kbit/s circuits between the University of
    California at Los Angeles, the Stanford Research Institute, the University of California at Santa Barbara, and the
    University of Utah.[12] In the 1970s, Leonard Kleinrock carried out mathematical work to model the performance of
    packet-switched networks, which underpinned the development of the ARPANET.[13][14] His theoretical work on
    hierarchical routing in the late 1970s with student Farouk Kamoun remains critical to the operation of the Internet
    today.
    In 1972, commercial services using X.25 were deployed, and later used as an underlying infrastructure for expanding
    TCP/IP networks.
    In 1973, the French CYCLADES network was the first to make the hosts responsible for the reliable delivery of data,
    rather than this being a centralized service of the network itself.[15]
    In 1973, Robert Metcalfe wrote a formal memo at Xerox PARC describing Ethernet, a networking system that was based
    on the Aloha network, developed in the 1960s by Norman Abramson and colleagues at the University of Hawaii. In July
    1976, Robert Metcalfe and David Boggs published their paper "Ethernet: Distributed Packet Switching for Local
    Computer Networks"[16] and collaborated on several patents received in 1977 and 1978.
    In 1974, Vint Cerf, Yogen Dalal, and Carl Sunshine published the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) specification,
    RFC 675, coining the term Internet as a shorthand for internetworking.[17]
    In 1976, John Murphy of Datapoint Corporation created ARCNET, a token-passing network first used to share storage
    devices.
    In 1977, the first long-distance fiber network was deployed by GTE in Long Beach, California.
    In 1977, Xerox Network Systems (XNS) was developed by Robert Metcalfe and Yogen Dalal at Xerox.[18]
    In 1979, Robert Metcalfe pursued making Ethernet an open standard.[19]
    In 1980, Ethernet was upgraded from the original 2.94 Mbit/s protocol to the 10 Mbit/s protocol, which was
    developed by Ron Crane, Bob Garner, Roy Ogus,[20] and Yogen Dalal.[21]
    In 1995, the transmission speed capacity for Ethernet increased from 10 Mbit/s to 100 Mbit/s. By 1998, Ethernet
    supported transmission speeds of a Gigabit. Subsequently, higher speeds of up to 400 Gbit/s were added (as of 2018).
    The scaling of Ethernet has been a contributing factor to its continued use.[19]